content/course/example/_index.md, before:

---
date: "2021-01-24"
linkTitle: Data Science
summary: An example of using Wowchemy's Book layout for publishing online courses.
title: "\U0001F4CA Learn Data Science"
type: book
---

{{< figure src="featured.jpg" >}}

{{< toc hide_on="xl" >}}

## What you will learn

- Fundamental {{<hl>}}Python programming skills{{</hl>}}
- {{<hl>}}Statistical concepts{{</hl>}} and how to apply them in practice
- Gain experience with the {{<hl>}}Scikit{{</hl>}}, including data visualization with {{<hl>}}Plotly{{</hl>}} and data wrangling with {{<hl>}}Pandas{{</hl>}}

## Program overview

The demand for skilled data science practitioners is rapidly growing. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Duis posuere tellus ac convallis placerat. Proin tincidunt magna sed ex sollicitudin condimentum. Sed ac faucibus dolor, scelerisque sollicitudin nisi.

## Courses in this program

{{< list_children >}}

## Meet your instructor

{{< mention "admin" >}}

## FAQs

{{< spoiler text="Are there prerequisites?" >}}
There are no prerequisites for the first course.
{{< /spoiler >}}

{{< spoiler text="How often do the courses run?" >}}
Continuously, at your own pace.
{{< /spoiler >}}

{{< cta cta_text="Begin the course" cta_link="python" >}}

Commit message:

update for basics of course

content/course/example/_index.md, after:

---
date: "2022-01-24"
linkTitle: Bayesian Statistics
summary: Bayesian statistics and causal inference
title: "\U0001F4CA Bayesian Statistics"
type: book
---

{{< figure src="featured.jpg" >}}

{{< toc hide_on="xl" >}}

## What you will learn

- Fundamental {{<hl>}}R programming skills{{</hl>}}
- {{<hl>}}Statistical concepts{{</hl>}} and how to apply them in practice
- Gain experience with the {{<hl>}}stan{{</hl>}}, including data visualization with {{<hl>}}tidybayes{{</hl>}} and data wrangling with {{<hl>}}tidyverse{{</hl>}}

## Course overview

This course builds your knowledge of and confidence in making inferences from data. Reflecting the need for scripting in today's model-based statistics, students will perform step-by-step calculations that are usually automated. This unique computational approach ensures that sufficient understanding to make reasonable choices and interpretations in your own modeling work.

We'll cover causal inference and generalized linear multilevel models from a simple Bayesian perspective that builds on information theory and maximum entropy. The core material ranges from the basics of regression to advanced multilevel models. If time, we'll discuss measurement error, missing data, and Gaussian process models for spatial and phylogenetic confounding.

The course also includes directed acyclic graph (DAG) approach to causal inference. Additional topics may include the design of prior distributions, splines, ordered categorical predictors, social relations models, cross-validation, importance sampling, instrumental variables, and Hamiltonian Monte Carlo. Our goal is to go beyond generalized linear modeling, showing how domain-specific scientific models can be built into statistical analyses.

Application of the models will focus on research in cognitive science, human-computer interaction, computational social science, and information visualization. 

## Courses in this program

{{< list_children >}}

## Meet your instructor

{{< mention "admin" >}}

## FAQs

{{< spoiler text="Are there prerequisites?" >}}
Yes. Experience with R, especially tidyverse, are necessary. Students without should immediately consider DataCamp courses and hands-on practice problems. We'll also assume core understanding of statistical models like linear regression. 
{{< /spoiler >}}

{{< spoiler text="What programming languages will be used?" >}}
Lectures and coursework will require R. Students must complete assignments in R. However, final projects can be done in Python (e.g., pyMC3) or Julia (turing.jl).
{{< /spoiler >}}

{{< cta cta_text="Begin the course" cta_link="python" >}}
